.local/share/nvim/site/pack/base/start/nvim-treesitter/README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <h1>nvim-treesitter</h1>
  <p>
    <a href="https://nvim-treesitter.zulipchat.com/">
      <img alt="Zulip Chat" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/zulip-join_chat-brightgreen.svg" />
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Linting+and+style+checking%22+branch%3Amaster">
      <img alt="Linting and Style" src="https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/workflows/Linting%20and%20style%20checking/badge.svg" />
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Check+loading+of+syntax+files%22+branch%3Amaster">
      <img alt="Syntax files" src="https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/workflows/Check%20loading%20of%20syntax%20files/badge.svg" />
    </a>
  </p>
</div>

<div align="center">
  <p>
    <img src="assets/logo.png" align="center" alt="Logo" />
  </p>
  <p>
    <a href="https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter">Treesitter</a>
    configurations and abstraction layer for
    <a href="https://github.com/neovim/neovim/">Neovim</a>.
  </p>
  <p>
    <i>
      Logo by <a href="https://github.com/steelsojka">@steelsojka</a>
    </i>
  </p>
</div>

The goal of `nvim-treesitter` is both to provide a simple and easy way to use the interface for [tree-sitter](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter) in Neovim and to provide some basic functionality such as highlighting based on it:

![cpp example](assets/example-cpp.png)

Traditional highlighting (left) vs Treesitter-based highlighting (right).
More examples can be found in [our gallery](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/wiki/Gallery).

**Warning: Treesitter and nvim-treesitter highlighting are an experimental feature of nightly versions of Neovim.
Please consider the experience with this plug-in as experimental until Neovim 0.5 is released!
You can find the current roadmap [here](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/projects/1).
The roadmap and all features of this plugin are open to change, and any suggestion will be highly appreciated!**

Nvim-treesitter is based on three interlocking features: [**language parsers**](#language-parsers), [**queries**](#adding-queries), and [**modules**](#available-modules), where *modules* provide features – e.g., highlighting – based on *queries* for syntax objects extracted from a given buffer by *language parsers*.
Users will generally only need to interact with parsers and modules as explained in the next section.
For more detailed information on setting these up, see ["Advanced setup"](#advanced-setup).

---

### Table of contents

* [Quickstart](#quickstart)
* [Supported languages](#supported-languages)
* [Available modules](#available-modules)
* [Advanced setup](#advanced-setup)
* [Extra features](#extra-features)
* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

---

# Quickstart

## Requirements

- Neovim [nightly](https://github.com/neovim/neovim#install-from-source)
- `tar` and `curl` in your path (or alternativly `git`)
- A C compiler in your path and libstdc++ installed ([Windows users please read this!](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/wiki/Windows-support)).

## Installation

You can install `nvim-treesitter` with your favorite package manager (or using the native `package` feature of vim, see `:h packages`).

E.g., if you are using [vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug), put this in your `init.vim` file:

```vim
Plug 'nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter', {'do': ':TSUpdate'}  " We recommend updating the parsers on update
```

## Language parsers

Treesitter uses a different _parser_ for every language, which needs to be generated via `tree-sitter-cli` from a `grammar.js` file, then compiled to a `.so` library that needs to be placed in neovim's `runtimepath` (typically under `parser/{language}.so`).
To simplify this, `nvim-treesitter` provides commands to automate this process.
If the language is already [supported by `nvim-treesitter`](#supported-languages), you can install it with
```vim
:TSInstall {language}
```
This command supports tab expansion.
You can also get a list of all available languages and their installation status with `:TSInstallInfo`.
Parsers not on this list can be added manually by following the steps described under ["Adding parsers"](#adding-parsers) below.

If you update `nvim-treesitter` and want to make sure the parser is at the latest compatible version (as specified in `nvim-treesitter`'s `lockfile.json`), use `:TSUpdate {language}`.
To update all parsers unconditionally, use `:TSUpdate all` or just `:TSUpdate`.

## Modules

Each module provides a distinct tree-sitter-based feature such as [highlighting](#highlight), [indentation](#indentation), or [folding](#folding); see [`:h nvim-treesitter-modules`](doc/nvim-treesitter.txt) or ["Available modules"](#available-modules) below for a list of modules and their options.

All modules are disabled by default and need to be activated explicitly in your `init.vim`, e.g., via

```vim
lua <<EOF
require'nvim-treesitter.configs'.setup {
  ensure_installed = "maintained", -- one of "all", "maintained" (parsers with maintainers), or a list of languages
  highlight = {
    enable = true,              -- false will disable the whole extension
    disable = { "c", "rust" },  -- list of language that will be disabled
  },
}
EOF
```

Each module can also be enabled or disabled interactively through the following commands:

```vim
:TSBufEnable {module} " enable module on current buffer
:TSBufDisable {module} " disable module on current buffer
:TSEnableAll {module} [{ft}] " enable module on every buffer. If filetype is specified, enable only for this filetype.
:TSDisableAll {module} [{ft}] " disable module on every buffer. If filetype is specified, disable only for this filetype.
:TSModuleInfo [{module}] " list information about modules state for each filetype
```

Check [`:h nvim-treesitter-commands`](doc/nvim-treesitter.txt) for a list of all available commands.
It may be necessary to reload the buffer (e.g., via `:e`) after enabling a module interactively.

# Supported languages

For `nvim-treesitter` to support a specific feature for a specific language requires both a parser for that language and an appropriate language-specific query file for that feature.

The following is a list of languages for which a parser can be installed through `:TSInstall`; a checked box means that `nvim-treesitter` also contains queries at least for the `highlight` module.

We are looking for maintainers to add more parsers and to write query files for their languages.

<!--This section of the README is automatically updated by a CI job-->
<!--parserinfo-->
- [x] [bash](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-bash) (maintained by @TravonteD)
- [x] [c](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-c) (maintained by @vigoux)
- [x] [c_sharp](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-c-sharp) (maintained by @svermeulen)
- [x] [clojure](https://github.com/sogaiu/tree-sitter-clojure) (maintained by @sogaiu)
- [x] [cpp](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-cpp) (maintained by @theHamsta)
- [x] [css](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-css) (maintained by @TravonteD)
- [x] [dart](https://github.com/UserNobody14/tree-sitter-dart) (maintained by @Akin909)
- [ ] [elm](https://github.com/razzeee/tree-sitter-elm)
- [x] [erlang](https://github.com/AbstractMachinesLab/tree-sitter-erlang) (maintained by @ostera)
- [x] [fennel](https://github.com/travonted/tree-sitter-fennel) (maintained by @TravonteD)
- [x] [Godot (gdscript)](https://github.com/PrestonKnopp/tree-sitter-gdscript) (maintained by not @tjdevries)
- [x] [go](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-go) (maintained by @theHamsta, @WinWisely268)
- [x] [graphql](https://github.com/bkegley/tree-sitter-graphql) (maintained by @bkegley)
- [ ] [haskell](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-haskell)
- [x] [html](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-html) (maintained by @TravonteD)
- [x] [java](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-java) (maintained by @p00f)
- [x] [javascript](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-javascript) (maintained by @steelsojka)
- [x] [jsdoc](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-jsdoc) (maintained by @steelsojka)
- [x] [json](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-json) (maintained by @steelsojka)
- [ ] [julia](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-julia)
- [x] [kotlin](https://github.com/QthCN/tree-sitter-kotlin) (maintained by @tormodatt)
- [x] [lua](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/tree-sitter-lua) (maintained by @vigoux)
- [x] [nix](https://github.com/cstrahan/tree-sitter-nix) (maintained by @leo60228)
- [x] [ocaml](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-ocaml) (maintained by @undu)
- [x] [ocaml_interface](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-ocaml) (maintained by @undu)
- [x] [ocamllex](https://github.com/atom-ocaml/tree-sitter-ocamllex) (maintained by @undu)
- [x] [php](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-php) (maintained by @tk-shirasaka)
- [x] [python](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-python) (maintained by @stsewd, @theHamsta)
- [x] [ql](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-ql) (maintained by @pwntester)
- [x] [Tree-sitter query language](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/tree-sitter-query) (maintained by @steelsojka)
- [x] [regex](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-regex) (maintained by @theHamsta)
- [x] [rst](https://github.com/stsewd/tree-sitter-rst) (maintained by @stsewd)
- [x] [ruby](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-ruby) (maintained by @TravonteD)
- [x] [rust](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-rust) (maintained by @vigoux)
- [ ] [scala](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-scala)
- [x] [sparql](https://github.com/BonaBeavis/tree-sitter-sparql) (maintained by @bonabeavis)
- [ ] [swift](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-swift)
- [x] [teal](https://github.com/euclidianAce/tree-sitter-teal) (maintained by @euclidianAce)
- [x] [toml](https://github.com/ikatyang/tree-sitter-toml) (maintained by @tk-shirasaka)
- [ ] [tsx](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-typescript)
- [x] [typescript](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-typescript) (maintained by @steelsojka)
- [x] [verilog](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-verilog) (maintained by @zegervdv)
- [ ] [vue](https://github.com/ikatyang/tree-sitter-vue)
- [ ] [yaml](https://github.com/ikatyang/tree-sitter-yaml)
<!--parserinfo-->


# Available modules

Modules provide the top-level features of `nvim-treesitter`.
The following is a list of modules included in `nvim-treesitter` and their configuration via `init.vim` (where multiple modules can be combined in a single call to `setup`).
Note that not all modules work for all languages (depending on the queries available for them).
Additional modules can be provided as [external plugins](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/wiki/Extra-modules-and-plugins).

#### Highlight

Consistent syntax highlighting.

```vim
lua <<EOF
require'nvim-treesitter.configs'.setup {
  highlight = {
    enable = true,
    custom_captures = {
      -- Highlight the @foo.bar capture group with the "Identifier" highlight group.
      ["foo.bar"] = "Identifier",
    },
  },
}
EOF
```

#### Incremental selection

Incremental selection based on the named nodes from the grammar.

```vim
lua <<EOF
require'nvim-treesitter.configs'.setup {
  incremental_selection = {
    enable = true,
    keymaps = {
      init_selection = "gnn",
      node_incremental = "grn",
      scope_incremental = "grc",
      node_decremental = "grm",
    },
  },
}
EOF
```

#### Indentation

Tree-sitter based indentation.

```vim
lua <<EOF
require'nvim-treesitter.config'.setup {
  indent = {
    enable = true
  }
}
EOF
```

#### Folding

Tree-sitter based folding.

```vim
set foldmethod=expr
set foldexpr=nvim_treesitter#foldexpr()
```

This will respect your `foldnestmax` setting.

# Advanced setup

## Adding parsers

If you have a parser that is not on the list of supported languages (either as a repository on Github or in a local directory), you can add it manually for use by `nvim-treesitter` as follows:

1. Clone the repository or [create a new project](https://tree-sitter.github.io/tree-sitter/creating-parsers#project-setup) in, say, `~/projects/tree-sitter-zimbu`. Make sure that the `tree-sitter-cli` executable is installed and in your path; see <https://tree-sitter.github.io/tree-sitter/creating-parsers#installation> for installation instructions.
2. Run `tree-sitter generate` in this directory (followed by `tree-sitter test` for good measure).
3. Add the following snippet to your `init.vim`:

```vim
lua <<EOF
local parser_config = require "nvim-treesitter.parsers".get_parser_configs()
parser_config.zimbu = {
  install_info = {
    url = "~/projects/tree-sitter-zimbu", -- local path or git repo
    files = {"src/parser.c"}
  },
  filetype = "zu", -- if filetype does not agrees with parser name
  used_by = {"bar", "baz"} -- additional filetypes that use this parser
}
EOF
```

4. Start `nvim` and `:TSInstall zimbu`.

You can also skip step 2 and use `:TSInstallFromGrammar zimbu` to install directly from a `grammar.js` in the top-level directory specified by `url`.
Once the parser is installed, you can update it (from the latest revision of the `main` branch if `url` is a Github repository) with `:TSUpdate zimbu`.

## Update parsers used_by

Sometimes needs to use some parser for different filetype.

Add the following snippet to your `init.vim`:

```vim
lua <<EOF
local parser_config = require "nvim-treesitter.parsers".get_parser_configs()
parser_config.typescript.used_by = "javascriptflow"
EOF
```

## Adding queries

Queries are what `nvim-treesitter` uses to extract informations from the syntax tree; they are
located in the `queries/{language}/*` runtime directories (like the `queries` folder of this plugin), e.g., `queries/{language}/{locals,highlights,textobjects}.scm`.
Other modules may require additional queries such as `folding.scm`.

`nvim-treesitter` considers queries as any runtime file (see `:h rtp`), i.e.,

- if the file is in any `after/queries/` folder, then it will be used to extend the already defined
  queries.
- Otherwise, it will be used as a base to define the query, the first query found (with the highest
  priority) will be the only one to be used.

This hybrid approach is the most standard way; in this case

- if you want to rewrite (or write) a query, don't use `after/queries`;
- if you want to override a part of a query (only one match for example), use the `after/queries`
  directory.

## Adding modules

If you wish you write your own module, you need to support

- tree-sitter language detection support;
- attaching and detaching to buffers;
- all nvim-treesitter commands.

At the top level, you can use the `define_modules` function to define one or more modules or module groups:

```vim
lua <<EOF
require'nvim-treesitter'.define_modules {
  my_cool_plugin = {
    attach = function(bufnr, lang)
      -- Do cool stuff here
    end,
    detach = function(bufnr)
      -- Undo cool stuff here
    end,
    is_supported = function(lang)
      -- Check if the language is supported
    end
  }
}
EOF
```

with the following properties:

- `module_path` specifies a require path (string) that exports a module with an `attach` and `detach` function. This is not required if the functions are on this definition.
- `enable` determines if the module is enabled by default. This is usually overridden by the user.
- `disable` takes a list of languages that this module is disabled for. This is usually overridden by the user.
- `is_supported` takes a function that takes a language and determines if this module supports that language.
- `attach` takes a function that attaches to a buffer. This is required if `module_path` is not provided.
- `detach` takes a function that detaches from a buffer. This is required if `module_path` is not provided.

# Extra features

### Statusline indicator

```vim
echo nvim_treesitter#statusline(90)  " 90 can be any length
module->expression_statement->call->identifier
```

### Utilities

You can get some utility functions with

```lua
local ts_utils = require 'nvim-treesitter.ts_utils'
```

Check [`:h nvim-treesitter-utils`](doc/nvim-treesitter.txt) for more information.

# Troubleshooting

Before doing anything, make sure you have the latest version of this plugin and run `:checkhealth nvim_treesitter`.
It can also help to update the parsers via `:TSUpdate`.

#### Feature `X` does not work for `{language}`...

First, check the `## {language} parser healthcheck` section of `:checkhealth` for any warning.
If there is one, it's highly likely that this is the cause of the problem.
If everything is okay, then it might be an actual error.

In that case, feel free to [open an issue here](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/issues/new/choose).

#### I get `module 'vim.treesitter.query' not found`

Make sure you have the latest nightly version of Neovim.

#### I get `Error detected while processing .../plugin/nvim-treesitter.vim` every time I open Neovim

This is probably due to a change in a parser's grammar or its queries.
Try updating the parser that you suspect has changed (`:TSUpdate {language}`) or all of them (`:TSUpdate`).
If the error persists after updating all parsers,
please [open an issue](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/issues/new/choose).

#### I experience weird highlighting issues similar to [#78](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/issues/78)

This is a well known issue, which arises when the tree and the buffer have gotten out of sync.
As this is an upstream issue, we don't have any definite fix.
To get around this, you can force reparsing the buffer with

```vim
:write | edit | TSBufEnable highlight
```

This will save, restore and enable highlighting for the current buffer.

#### I experience bugs when using `nvim-treesitter`'s `foldexpr` similar to [#194](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/issues/194)

This might happen, and is known to happen, with `vim-clap`.
To avoid these kind of errors, please use `setlocal` instead of `set` for the respective filetypes.

Commit message:

git subrepo pull .local/share/nvim/site/pack/base/start/nvim-treesitter
subrepo:
  subdir: ".local/share/nvim/site/pack/base/start/nvim-treesitter"
  merged: "db033f7"
upstream:
  origin: "https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter.git"
  branch: "master"
  commit: "db033f7"

.local/share/nvim/site/pack/base/start/nvim-treesitter/README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <h1>nvim-treesitter</h1>
  <p>
    <a href="https://nvim-treesitter.zulipchat.com/">
      <img alt="Zulip Chat" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/zulip-join_chat-brightgreen.svg" />
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Linting+and+style+checking%22+branch%3Amaster">
      <img alt="Linting and Style" src="https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/workflows/Linting%20and%20style%20checking/badge.svg" />
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Check+loading+of+syntax+files%22+branch%3Amaster">
      <img alt="Syntax files" src="https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/workflows/Check%20loading%20of%20syntax%20files/badge.svg" />
    </a>
  </p>
</div>

<div align="center">
  <p>
    <img src="assets/logo.png" align="center" alt="Logo" />
  </p>
  <p>
    <a href="https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter">Treesitter</a>
    configurations and abstraction layer for
    <a href="https://github.com/neovim/neovim/">Neovim</a>.
  </p>
  <p>
    <i>
      Logo by <a href="https://github.com/steelsojka">@steelsojka</a>
    </i>
  </p>
</div>

The goal of `nvim-treesitter` is both to provide a simple and easy way to use the interface for [tree-sitter](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter) in Neovim and to provide some basic functionality such as highlighting based on it:

![cpp example](assets/example-cpp.png)

Traditional highlighting (left) vs Treesitter-based highlighting (right).
More examples can be found in [our gallery](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/wiki/Gallery).

**Warning: Treesitter and nvim-treesitter highlighting are an experimental feature of nightly versions of Neovim.
Please consider the experience with this plug-in as experimental until Neovim 0.5 is released!
You can find the current roadmap [here](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/projects/1).
The roadmap and all features of this plugin are open to change, and any suggestion will be highly appreciated!**

Nvim-treesitter is based on three interlocking features: [**language parsers**](#language-parsers), [**queries**](#adding-queries), and [**modules**](#available-modules), where *modules* provide features – e.g., highlighting – based on *queries* for syntax objects extracted from a given buffer by *language parsers*.
Users will generally only need to interact with parsers and modules as explained in the next section.
For more detailed information on setting these up, see ["Advanced setup"](#advanced-setup).

---

### Table of contents

* [Quickstart](#quickstart)
* [Supported languages](#supported-languages)
* [Available modules](#available-modules)
* [Advanced setup](#advanced-setup)
* [Extra features](#extra-features)
* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

---

# Quickstart

## Requirements

- Neovim [nightly](https://github.com/neovim/neovim#install-from-source)
- `tar` and `curl` in your path (or alternativly `git`)
- A C compiler in your path and libstdc++ installed ([Windows users please read this!](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/wiki/Windows-support)).

## Installation

You can install `nvim-treesitter` with your favorite package manager (or using the native `package` feature of vim, see `:h packages`).

E.g., if you are using [vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug), put this in your `init.vim` file:

```vim
Plug 'nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter', {'do': ':TSUpdate'}  " We recommend updating the parsers on update
```

## Language parsers

Treesitter uses a different _parser_ for every language, which needs to be generated via `tree-sitter-cli` from a `grammar.js` file, then compiled to a `.so` library that needs to be placed in neovim's `runtimepath` (typically under `parser/{language}.so`).
To simplify this, `nvim-treesitter` provides commands to automate this process.
If the language is already [supported by `nvim-treesitter`](#supported-languages), you can install it with
```vim
:TSInstall {language}
```
This command supports tab expansion.
You can also get a list of all available languages and their installation status with `:TSInstallInfo`.
Parsers not on this list can be added manually by following the steps described under ["Adding parsers"](#adding-parsers) below.

If you update `nvim-treesitter` and want to make sure the parser is at the latest compatible version (as specified in `nvim-treesitter`'s `lockfile.json`), use `:TSUpdate {language}`.
To update all parsers unconditionally, use `:TSUpdate all` or just `:TSUpdate`.

## Modules

Each module provides a distinct tree-sitter-based feature such as [highlighting](#highlight), [indentation](#indentation), or [folding](#folding); see [`:h nvim-treesitter-modules`](doc/nvim-treesitter.txt) or ["Available modules"](#available-modules) below for a list of modules and their options.

All modules are disabled by default and need to be activated explicitly in your `init.vim`, e.g., via

```vim
lua <<EOF
require'nvim-treesitter.configs'.setup {
  ensure_installed = "maintained", -- one of "all", "maintained" (parsers with maintainers), or a list of languages
  highlight = {
    enable = true,              -- false will disable the whole extension
    disable = { "c", "rust" },  -- list of language that will be disabled
  },
}
EOF
```

Each module can also be enabled or disabled interactively through the following commands:

```vim
:TSBufEnable {module} " enable module on current buffer
:TSBufDisable {module} " disable module on current buffer
:TSEnableAll {module} [{ft}] " enable module on every buffer. If filetype is specified, enable only for this filetype.
:TSDisableAll {module} [{ft}] " disable module on every buffer. If filetype is specified, disable only for this filetype.
:TSModuleInfo [{module}] " list information about modules state for each filetype
```

Check [`:h nvim-treesitter-commands`](doc/nvim-treesitter.txt) for a list of all available commands.
It may be necessary to reload the buffer (e.g., via `:e`) after enabling a module interactively.

# Supported languages

For `nvim-treesitter` to support a specific feature for a specific language requires both a parser for that language and an appropriate language-specific query file for that feature.

The following is a list of languages for which a parser can be installed through `:TSInstall`; a checked box means that `nvim-treesitter` also contains queries at least for the `highlight` module.

We are looking for maintainers to add more parsers and to write query files for their languages.

<!--This section of the README is automatically updated by a CI job-->
<!--parserinfo-->
- [x] [bash](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-bash) (maintained by @TravonteD)
- [x] [c](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-c) (maintained by @vigoux)
- [x] [c_sharp](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-c-sharp) (maintained by @svermeulen)
- [x] [clojure](https://github.com/sogaiu/tree-sitter-clojure) (maintained by @sogaiu)
- [x] [cpp](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-cpp) (maintained by @theHamsta)
- [x] [css](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-css) (maintained by @TravonteD)
- [x] [dart](https://github.com/UserNobody14/tree-sitter-dart) (maintained by @Akin909)
- [ ] [elm](https://github.com/razzeee/tree-sitter-elm)
- [x] [erlang](https://github.com/AbstractMachinesLab/tree-sitter-erlang) (maintained by @ostera)
- [x] [fennel](https://github.com/travonted/tree-sitter-fennel) (maintained by @TravonteD)
- [x] [Godot (gdscript)](https://github.com/PrestonKnopp/tree-sitter-gdscript) (maintained by not @tjdevries)
- [x] [go](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-go) (maintained by @theHamsta, @WinWisely268)
- [x] [graphql](https://github.com/bkegley/tree-sitter-graphql) (maintained by @bkegley)
- [ ] [haskell](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-haskell)
- [x] [html](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-html) (maintained by @TravonteD)
- [x] [java](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-java) (maintained by @p00f)
- [x] [javascript](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-javascript) (maintained by @steelsojka)
- [x] [jsdoc](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-jsdoc) (maintained by @steelsojka)
- [x] [json](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-json) (maintained by @steelsojka)
- [x] [julia](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-julia) (maintained by @mroavi, @theHamsta)
- [x] [kotlin](https://github.com/QthCN/tree-sitter-kotlin) (maintained by @tormodatt)
- [x] [lua](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/tree-sitter-lua) (maintained by @vigoux)
- [x] [nix](https://github.com/cstrahan/tree-sitter-nix) (maintained by @leo60228)
- [x] [ocaml](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-ocaml) (maintained by @undu)
- [x] [ocaml_interface](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-ocaml) (maintained by @undu)
- [x] [ocamllex](https://github.com/atom-ocaml/tree-sitter-ocamllex) (maintained by @undu)
- [x] [php](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-php) (maintained by @tk-shirasaka)
- [x] [python](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-python) (maintained by @stsewd, @theHamsta)
- [x] [ql](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-ql) (maintained by @pwntester)
- [x] [Tree-sitter query language](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/tree-sitter-query) (maintained by @steelsojka)
- [x] [regex](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-regex) (maintained by @theHamsta)
- [x] [rst](https://github.com/stsewd/tree-sitter-rst) (maintained by @stsewd)
- [x] [ruby](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-ruby) (maintained by @TravonteD)
- [x] [rust](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-rust) (maintained by @vigoux)
- [ ] [scala](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-scala)
- [x] [sparql](https://github.com/BonaBeavis/tree-sitter-sparql) (maintained by @bonabeavis)
- [ ] [swift](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-swift)
- [x] [teal](https://github.com/euclidianAce/tree-sitter-teal) (maintained by @euclidianAce)
- [x] [toml](https://github.com/ikatyang/tree-sitter-toml) (maintained by @tk-shirasaka)
- [ ] [tsx](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-typescript)
- [x] [turtle](https://github.com/BonaBeavis/tree-sitter-turtle) (maintained by @bonabeavis)
- [x] [typescript](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-typescript) (maintained by @steelsojka)
- [x] [verilog](https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter-verilog) (maintained by @zegervdv)
- [ ] [vue](https://github.com/ikatyang/tree-sitter-vue)
- [ ] [yaml](https://github.com/ikatyang/tree-sitter-yaml)
<!--parserinfo-->


# Available modules

Modules provide the top-level features of `nvim-treesitter`.
The following is a list of modules included in `nvim-treesitter` and their configuration via `init.vim` (where multiple modules can be combined in a single call to `setup`).
Note that not all modules work for all languages (depending on the queries available for them).
Additional modules can be provided as [external plugins](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/wiki/Extra-modules-and-plugins).

#### Highlight

Consistent syntax highlighting.

```vim
lua <<EOF
require'nvim-treesitter.configs'.setup {
  highlight = {
    enable = true,
    custom_captures = {
      -- Highlight the @foo.bar capture group with the "Identifier" highlight group.
      ["foo.bar"] = "Identifier",
    },
  },
}
EOF
```

#### Incremental selection

Incremental selection based on the named nodes from the grammar.

```vim
lua <<EOF
require'nvim-treesitter.configs'.setup {
  incremental_selection = {
    enable = true,
    keymaps = {
      init_selection = "gnn",
      node_incremental = "grn",
      scope_incremental = "grc",
      node_decremental = "grm",
    },
  },
}
EOF
```

#### Indentation

Tree-sitter based indentation.

```vim
lua <<EOF
require'nvim-treesitter.config'.setup {
  indent = {
    enable = true
  }
}
EOF
```

#### Folding

Tree-sitter based folding.

```vim
set foldmethod=expr
set foldexpr=nvim_treesitter#foldexpr()
```

This will respect your `foldnestmax` setting.

# Advanced setup

## Adding parsers

If you have a parser that is not on the list of supported languages (either as a repository on Github or in a local directory), you can add it manually for use by `nvim-treesitter` as follows:

1. Clone the repository or [create a new project](https://tree-sitter.github.io/tree-sitter/creating-parsers#project-setup) in, say, `~/projects/tree-sitter-zimbu`. Make sure that the `tree-sitter-cli` executable is installed and in your path; see <https://tree-sitter.github.io/tree-sitter/creating-parsers#installation> for installation instructions.
2. Run `tree-sitter generate` in this directory (followed by `tree-sitter test` for good measure).
3. Add the following snippet to your `init.vim`:

```vim
lua <<EOF
local parser_config = require "nvim-treesitter.parsers".get_parser_configs()
parser_config.zimbu = {
  install_info = {
    url = "~/projects/tree-sitter-zimbu", -- local path or git repo
    files = {"src/parser.c"}
  },
  filetype = "zu", -- if filetype does not agrees with parser name
  used_by = {"bar", "baz"} -- additional filetypes that use this parser
}
EOF
```

4. Start `nvim` and `:TSInstall zimbu`.

You can also skip step 2 and use `:TSInstallFromGrammar zimbu` to install directly from a `grammar.js` in the top-level directory specified by `url`.
Once the parser is installed, you can update it (from the latest revision of the `main` branch if `url` is a Github repository) with `:TSUpdate zimbu`.

## Update parsers used_by

Sometimes needs to use some parser for different filetype.

Add the following snippet to your `init.vim`:

```vim
lua <<EOF
local parser_config = require "nvim-treesitter.parsers".get_parser_configs()
parser_config.typescript.used_by = "javascriptflow"
EOF
```

## Adding queries

Queries are what `nvim-treesitter` uses to extract informations from the syntax tree; they are
located in the `queries/{language}/*` runtime directories (like the `queries` folder of this plugin), e.g., `queries/{language}/{locals,highlights,textobjects}.scm`.
Other modules may require additional queries such as `folding.scm`.

`nvim-treesitter` considers queries as any runtime file (see `:h rtp`), i.e.,

- if the file is in any `after/queries/` folder, then it will be used to extend the already defined
  queries.
- Otherwise, it will be used as a base to define the query, the first query found (with the highest
  priority) will be the only one to be used.

This hybrid approach is the most standard way; in this case

- if you want to rewrite (or write) a query, don't use `after/queries`;
- if you want to override a part of a query (only one match for example), use the `after/queries`
  directory.

## Adding modules

If you wish you write your own module, you need to support

- tree-sitter language detection support;
- attaching and detaching to buffers;
- all nvim-treesitter commands.

At the top level, you can use the `define_modules` function to define one or more modules or module groups:

```vim
lua <<EOF
require'nvim-treesitter'.define_modules {
  my_cool_plugin = {
    attach = function(bufnr, lang)
      -- Do cool stuff here
    end,
    detach = function(bufnr)
      -- Undo cool stuff here
    end,
    is_supported = function(lang)
      -- Check if the language is supported
    end
  }
}
EOF
```

with the following properties:

- `module_path` specifies a require path (string) that exports a module with an `attach` and `detach` function. This is not required if the functions are on this definition.
- `enable` determines if the module is enabled by default. This is usually overridden by the user.
- `disable` takes a list of languages that this module is disabled for. This is usually overridden by the user.
- `is_supported` takes a function that takes a language and determines if this module supports that language.
- `attach` takes a function that attaches to a buffer. This is required if `module_path` is not provided.
- `detach` takes a function that detaches from a buffer. This is required if `module_path` is not provided.

# Extra features

### Statusline indicator

```vim
echo nvim_treesitter#statusline(90)  " 90 can be any length
module->expression_statement->call->identifier
```

### Utilities

You can get some utility functions with

```lua
local ts_utils = require 'nvim-treesitter.ts_utils'
```

Check [`:h nvim-treesitter-utils`](doc/nvim-treesitter.txt) for more information.

# Troubleshooting

Before doing anything, make sure you have the latest version of this plugin and run `:checkhealth nvim_treesitter`.
It can also help to update the parsers via `:TSUpdate`.

#### Feature `X` does not work for `{language}`...

First, check the `## {language} parser healthcheck` section of `:checkhealth` for any warning.
If there is one, it's highly likely that this is the cause of the problem.
If everything is okay, then it might be an actual error.

In that case, feel free to [open an issue here](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/issues/new/choose).

#### I get `module 'vim.treesitter.query' not found`

Make sure you have the latest nightly version of Neovim.

#### I get `Error detected while processing .../plugin/nvim-treesitter.vim` every time I open Neovim

This is probably due to a change in a parser's grammar or its queries.
Try updating the parser that you suspect has changed (`:TSUpdate {language}`) or all of them (`:TSUpdate`).
If the error persists after updating all parsers,
please [open an issue](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/issues/new/choose).

#### I experience weird highlighting issues similar to [#78](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/issues/78)

This is a well known issue, which arises when the tree and the buffer have gotten out of sync.
As this is an upstream issue, we don't have any definite fix.
To get around this, you can force reparsing the buffer with

```vim
:write | edit | TSBufEnable highlight
```

This will save, restore and enable highlighting for the current buffer.

#### I experience bugs when using `nvim-treesitter`'s `foldexpr` similar to [#194](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/issues/194)

This might happen, and is known to happen, with `vim-clap`.
To avoid these kind of errors, please use `setlocal` instead of `set` for the respective filetypes.

#### I run into errors like `module 'nvim-treesitter.configs' not found` at startup

This is because of `rtp` management in `nvim`, adding `packadd
nvim-treesitter` should fix the issue.
